        
        BOLINAS ROD AND BOAT CLUB BY-LAWS
        
        (MARCH 20, 2001)
        
        ARTICLE ONE
        NAME
        
        1.1. Name. In the desire to take a greater and more active part in the
        development of water recreation facilities, and in the conservation of
        fish and wildlife in the Bolinas area, we associate ourselves together
        under the name of the “Bolinas Rod and Boat Club.”
        
        1.2. Place of Operation. The place of operation shall be Bolinas,
        Marin County, California.
        
        ARTICLE TWO
        PURPOSE
        
        2.1 Purpose. The purpose for which the Club is formed and to which
        each member pledges himself or herself is:
        
        (a) As a public voice for the boating and fishing interests of
        the Bolinas area.
        
        (b) To promote a better understanding of safety in water
        recreation.
        
        (c) For the conservation of fish and wildlife.
        
        (d) To uphold the fish and game laws.
        
        ARTICLE THREE
        MEMBERSHIP
        
        3.1. Regular Members
        
        (a) Eligibility. Any citizen or permanent United States resident,
        18 years of age or older, proposed and signed for by two (2) regular
        members, each having been a member in good standing for one (1) year,
        who shall inform the Applicant of the purpose and rules of the Club.
        
        (b) Application Process. No Applicant shall become a regular
        member until:
        
        1. The Applicant has completed the Club authorized application
        form, signed by the Applicant and all sponsors and accompanied by the
        initiation fee
        
        2. His or her application has been posted on the official Club
        bulletin board for a period of thirty (30) days.
        
        3. The Applicant has attended any three of six consecutive
        regular meetings and has been introduced by sponsor to members if
        possible. Any Applicant not meeting this requirement shall have his or
        her application withdrawn, at which time the Applicant may initiate
        the Application Process from the beginning.
        
        4. The Application is reviewed by the Membership Committee and
        approved by the Executive Committee within ninety (90) days after it
        has been received by the Executive Committee.
        
        5. His or her payment of dues, pro-rated for the balance of
        the year, has been received by the Club Treasurer.
        
        6. No Applicant shall have the use of the Club facilities,
        except as a guest, until he or she has been accepted as a regular
        member.
        
        7. If for any reason, an Applicant is not accepted, his or her
        initiation fee will be returned promptly.
        
        (c) Dues. Annual dues for regular membership are payable July 1 of
        each year and must be received no later than September 1 of that year,
        or membership will be terminated. Any reinstatement will be the same
        as that for a new member.
        
        (d) Benefits. A regular member shall receive club announcements,
        invitations to functions, and monthly minutes.
        
        (e) Number of Members. There shall be a maximum number of regular
        club members, proposed by the membership committee, approved by the
        Executive Board and the regular membership.
        
        
        3.2 Inactive Members
        
        (a) Eligibility. A regular member who is unable to participate in
        normal Club activities.
        
        (b) Application Process.
        
        1. A member wishing to be placed on the rolls for inactive
        status, at lesser dues, shall petition in writing to the Membership
        Committee.
        
        2. Approval by the Membership Committee and the Executive
        Board is required to become an inactive member.
        
        (c) Benefits and Rights. An inactive member shall have his or her
        name retained on the Club mailing list, and shall be entitled to
        receive Club announcements, invitations to functions, and monthly
        minutes but shall have no voting rights or individual use of any Club
        facility.
        
        (d) Termination. Inactive membership may be terminated at any time
        by the Executive Board, or reinstated to regular membership, with
        payment of the member of this year’s dues.
        
        (e) Dues. The amount of dues levied shall be set by the Executive
        Board by resolution and properly recorded in the minutes.
        
        
        3.3 Honorary Members
        
        (a) Eligibility. Membership shall be bestowed by resolution of the
        Executive Board for a period of one (1) year, and may be reviewed
        annually at the discretion of the Executive Board before March 1.
        
        (b) Benefits and Rights. An honorary member will receive Club
        announcements, invitations to functions, and monthly minutes.
        
        
        3.4. Termination of Membership. A member shall be terminated for the
        following reasons:
        
            (a) A willful violation of the State Fish and Game Laws.
        
            (b) A willful violation of laws governing the Club and its
        members.
        
            (c) The Executive Board will review the charges and act on the
        evidence presented. Any member so charged will be given the
        opportunity to defend him or herself.
        
            (d) All memberships are non transferable.
        
        
        ARTICLE FOUR
        OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
        
        
        4.1. Executive Board. The Club shall be governed by an executive board
        comprised of the following Directors and Officers:
        
            (a) PRESIDENT
        
        1. The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
        Club. He or she shall preside at all regular or special meetings, and
        act as Chairperson of the Executive Board. He or she shall have
        authority to call special meetings of the Club, or the Executive
        Board, whenever necessary, upon proper notice to the membership.
        
        2. The President shall be an Ex-officio Member of all
        committees except the Nominating Committee. He or she shall appoint
        all other committees.
        
            (b) VICE PRESIDENT
        
        1. If for any reason the President cannot preside, the Vice
        President shall assume his or her duties. If both President and Vice
        President are absent, the Senior Director present shall preside.
        
        2. In the event of the resignation or death of the President,
        the Vice President automatically becomes President for the unexpired
        term of office. The Senior Director shall fill the office of Vice
        President. A new Director will then be appointed by the Executive
        Board to serve until the next annual election.
        
            (c) SECRETARY
        
        1. The Secretary shall act under the direction of the
        President and the Executive Board. He or she shall keep records and
        minutes of all regular, special and Executive Board meetings. He or
        she shall maintain a record of all Club members. He or she shall
        perform all secretarial duties pertaining to that office.
        
        2. The Secretary may appoint an assistant secretary to help
        with the duties of that office.
        
        3. In the event of the resignation or the death of the
        Secretary, the Executive Boaard shall appoint a member in good
        standing to that office for the remaining term.
        
            (d) TREASURER
        
        1. The treasurer shall keep all financial records of the Club.
        All records shall be kept by an accepted accounting procedure. He or
        she shall receive all moneys and deposit the same in the Club’s
        account(s). All checks issued must be signed by the Treasurer and
        either the President, Vice President, Secretary or any Director
        appointed by the Executive Board.
        
        2. The Treasurer may be bonded in the amount deemed necessary
        by the Executive Board.
        
        3. The Treasurer may appoint an assistant treasurer to help
        with the duties of that office.
        
        4. The Treasurer shall issue checks to pay all debts legally
        incurred by the Club upon authorization by the Executive Board except
        routine expenditures.
        
        5. The treasurer shall present verbally, or in writing, a
        current balance sheet to include the monthly receipts and expenditures
        of the Club.
        
            (e) DIRECTORS
        
        1. There shall be seven (7) Directors who shall be members of
        the Executive Board and shall act in conjunction with the President.
        
        2. Eligibility for the office of President, Vice President,
        Secretary and Treasurer will require that the candidate be available
        to attend meetings and able to administer the duties of the office.
        
        3. Eligibility for any office shall require that the candidate
        shall have been a member in good standing for at least one (1) year
        prior to nomination.
        
            (f) TERMS OF OFFICE
        
        1. The President shall serve not more than two (2) consecutive
        terms.
        
        2. The President, Vice President, Treasurer and Secretary
        shall be elected annually and shall hold office for one (1) year or
        until their successors are elected.
        
        3. Directors shall server for two (2) years or until their
        successors are elected. Three (3) Directors shall be elected on every
        even year, and four (4) Directors elected on every odd year.
        
        (g) Vacancies. In filling vacancies for unexpired terms, any
        officer who has served more than half a term is considered to have
        served a full term in that office.
        
        (h) Divestment. Any officer  who fails to attend three consecutive
        Board Meetings shall be divested of his or her office by the Executive
        Board, who shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of that
        term, unless such absence is authorized by the Executive Board.
        
        
        4.2. Insurance. The Club shall purchase and maintain appropriate
        insurance coverage as recommended by an insurance agent and approved
        by the Executive Board.
        
        ARTICLE V
        MEETINGS
        
        5.1 Place of Meetings. Meetings shall be held in the Clubhouse of the
        Bolinas Rod and Boat Club, Bolinas, Marin County, California.
        
        5.2. Regular Meetings. Unless otherwise ordered by the Executive
        Board, regular meetings shall be held on the first Friday of each
        month. At these meetings the chairperson of each standing and special
        committee shall provide a status report on his or her committee.
        
        5.3. Annual Meeting. The Regular Meeting in February shall be known as
        the Annual Meeting and shall be for the purpose of electing officers,
        receiving reports from the Committees and Officers, and any other
        pertinent business.
        
        5.4. Executive Board Meetings. The Executive Board may hold monthly
        meetings for the purpose of conducting normal Club business. At these
        meetings the chairpersons of each standing and special committee shall
        provide a status report on his or her committee. This meeting shell be
        held on a date mutually agreeable to the Executive Board members.
        Notice of this meeting shall be posted on the Club bulletin board at
        least seven (7) days prior to meeting.
        
        5.5 Special Meetings:
        
        (a) the Executive Board may call a special meeting by their own
        vote, or on application in writing of ten percent (10%) of the regular
        members in good standing.
        
        (b)  In the case a special meeting is called, the Executive Board
        shall give not less than ten (10) days notice to the membership,
        stating the time, place and reason for such meeting.
        
        (c) Business transacted at special meetings should be limited to
        that matter mentioned in the notice of the meeting.
        
        (d) If it urgent to take action in an emergency for which no
        notice could be given, then, in order to legalize that action, it is
        necessary for it to be ratified at a regular meeting or at a meeting
        called for that purpose.
        
        5.6. Quorum
        
        (a) In order that the business of the club (except for routine
        expenditures, reports, approval, etc.) can be legally transacted, a
        quorum must be present at all meetings, consisting of ten percent
        (10%) or more of members in good standing.
        
        (b) Executive and Committee meetings require a majority of the
        Executive Board or committee members to be present to constitute a
        quorum.
        
        
        ARTICLE SIX
        EXECUTIVE BOARD
        
        6.1. Executive Board. The Executive Board shall consist of the
        President, Vice President, Treasurer, Secretary and seven (7)
        Directors. Their duties are:
        
        (a) They shall be responsible to the membership for the operation
        of the Club, and all Club transactions.
        
        (b) They shall authorize all expenditures and shall not create any
        indebetedness beyond the ability of the Club to pay.
        
        (c) They shall have Club books audited as often as deemed
        necessary.
        
        (d) They shall set the rate of all dues and fees by resolution
        properly recorded in the minutes.
        
        (e) They shall hold special meetings when called by the President,
        or at the written request of ten percent (10%) of the membership.
        
        (f) They shall have the right for good cause to meet in executive
        session excluding any member(s) or officer(s).
        
        (g) They shall designate time and place of regular and special
        meetings.
        
        (h) They shall regulate all Club business pertaining to renting,
        leasing, selling, giving, lending, etc., of any Club property.
        
        (i) They shall appoint a Nominating Committee at the November
        meeting for proposing the name of candidates for club officers.
        
        
        ARTICLE SEVEN
        COMMITTEES
        
        
        7.1. Nominating Committee
        
        (a) The Nominating Committee shall be appointed by the Executive
        Board at the November meeting and be notified of its duties no later
        than the first week in December.
        
        (b) The Committee shall consist of at least three (3) members.
        
        (c) Members of the Committee shall not be barred from being
        nominees for office.
        
        (d) The Committee shall poll the candidates selected as to their
        willingness to run for the office selected for them.
        
        (e) The Nominating Committee shall select a ticket of one or more
        candidate(s) for each office open for nomination.
        
        (f) The Committee shall present its recommendations to the Chair
        at the Annual Meeting, at the opening of nominations.
        
        7.2. Other Committees
        
        (a) The President shall appoint all standing committees by the
        regular March meeting, and any special committees as the need arisies.
        
        (b) Committees are directly responsible to the President, and will
        report their progress at the regular monthly meeting.
        
        (c) Committees are encouraged to meet monthly, if possible, and at
        the convenience of the committee members.
        
        (d) Special committees, their duties and functions, shall be
        posted on the Club bulletin board.
        
        7.3. Standing Committees
        
            (a) House Committee – Chairman and one or more members
        
        1. Maintain yearly records of all Clubhouse Inventory.
        
        2. Initiate rules for safety, comfort, cleanliness and
        security.
        
        3. Propose long-range plans for remodeling, repair and
        maintenance.
        
        4. Monitor on-going projects and general housekeeping.
        
        5. Manage clubhouse rentals.
        
            (b) Finance Committee – Chairman and one or more members
        
        1. Maintain ledger for Club receipts and expenditures.
        
        2. Prepare financial reports for the membership.
        
        3. Pay all proper taxes and fees of the Club.
        
        4. Prepa4. Prepare an annual budget of fixed expenses and income of
        the Club.
        
        5. Supervise and audit all fund-raising projects.
        
        6. Require a proper audit of its records as necessary.
        
        7. Maintain a record of any Club liability
        
            (c) Docks and YUards Committee – Chairman and one or more members
       
        1. Maintain record and inventory of all outside Club property.
        
        2. Maintain log of all mooring fleet users and bill for
        mooring fees.
        
        3. Maintain all outside Club property.
        
        4. Initiate rules for the use of property by members and
        guests.
        
        5. Maintain the installation and maintenance of moorings.
        
        6. Promote and monitor the observance of the Floats and Dock
        Rules as amended from time to time.
        
            (d) Membership Committee – Chairman and one or more members
        
        1. Keep record of membership.
        
        2. Process all new-member applications, bill and collect
        membership fees.
        
        3. Post new applications on Club bulletin board for thirty
        (30) days.
        
        4. Present completed applications to the Executive Board for
        prompt approval or denial.
        
        (e) By-laws Committee – Chairman and three or more members
        considting of a majority of regular members.
        
        1. Recommend any changes to present By-laws.
        
        2. A committee decision, in conjunction with the Executive
        Board, will be used for interpretation of By-laws.
        
            (f) Entertainment Committee – Chairman  and one member
        
        1. Set calendar of events for the year.
        
        2. Provide accurate account of event income and expenses at
        the next regular meeting of the Club following the event.
        
        3. Maintain supplies required for Club events.
        
        4. Manage the bar.
        
        ARTICLE EIGHT
        ELECTIONS
        
        8.1. Election at Annual Meeting. The election of officers shall be
        held at the Annual Meeting in February.
        
        8.2. Notice of Election. The Secretary shall notify the membership ten
        (10) days prior to the elections.
        
        8.3. Election Rules. The Presiding Officer shall:
        
        (a) Declare that the nominations are open for the following
        offices.
        
        (b) Ask the Nominating Committee for their recommendations.
        
        (c) Ask for any nominations from the floor.
        
        (d) Ask for a motion to close the nominations.
        
        (e) Call for a ballot vote on candidates for each office.
        
        (f) Present each candidate elected.
        
        (g) Declare elections closed.
        
        (h) Turn over the meeting to the new officers.
        
        
        ARTICLE NINE
        BY-LAWS
        
        9.1. Procedure to change or amend:
        
        (a) Submission to Executive Committee. Any changes in the By-laws
        or amendments thereto, recommended by the By-laws Committee, shall be
        submitted to the Executive Board for study.
        
        (b) Notice to Membership. Changes and/or amendments approved by
        the Executive Board shall be published in two (2) consecutive monthly
        meeting minutes. If deemed an emergency, Club can act on     change.
        
        (c) Approval by Membership. At the next meeting with a quorum
        present, changes and/or amendments will be submitted to a vote for
        apporoval by General Membership.
        
        ARTICLE TEN
        RULES OF ORDER
        
        10.1. Rules of Order.  Robert’s Rules of Order shall be the authority.
        
        These By-laws were reviewed, approved and adopted sometime in March of
        the year 2000.
        
        
        By-laws Committee:
        Sam McCullagh, Chair
        Thorny Smith
        Jim Danse
        John Bryant
        
